Adds Multimodal search page (#7706)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/search/multimodal-search/multimodal-search-tutorial.md

Reviewer: I assume updating the `semantic` mapping documentation to link here will be a followup?

Author: Yes, I'll open a PR for that soon as well

---
navigation_title: Tutorial with the semantic field
description: Index images in a semantic field and search them with text, image, and PDF input using Jina multimodal embeddings in Elasticsearch.
applies_to:
  stack: planned
  serverless: preview
products:
  - id: elasticsearch
  - id: cloud-serverless
type: tutorial
---

> # Build multimodal search with a semantic field [multimodal-search-tutorial]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Quickstart: Build a multimodal search in {{es}} [multimodal-search-tutorial]
```

adding "in {{es}}" for SEO + George's SEO proposal has a suggestion to prefix "quickstarts" e.g. 

`Quickstart: Build a multimodal search in {{es}}`

Also I think "with a semantic field" is potentially superfluous info in the heading. Not super strongly held opinion however.

(using "quickstart" with one on the future gives us more naming options if we add new tutorials going forward)

Author: For now, I agree that it's better to omit "semantic field" from the titles here.

I think whether we need it in the title depends on the tutorials we add in the future. If we end up including tutorials that don't use the semantic field type, it will probably make sense to add it back. But we can always do that when we get there

      "_source": {
        "title": "Space Shuttle Atlantis launches",
        "mission": "STS-125",
        "year": 2009,
        "source_url": "https://science.nasa.gov/image-detail/sts-125-launch-may-11-2009/"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
:::

The Apollo 11 image ranks first for a separate Apollo 11 PDF. The query targets only the `image` field, so the ordinary metadata fields do not affect the ranking. Exact scores can vary.

This PDF, the text query, the query image, and the indexed images are all embedded into the same vector space by the field's {{infer}} endpoint. The input format changes, but the search target does not.

## 7. Clean up [multimodal-tutorial-clean-up]

Delete the example index:

```sh
curl --fail-with-body --silent --show-error \
  --request DELETE \
  --url "$ELASTICSEARCH_URL/nasa-mission-images" \
  --header "Authorization: ApiKey $ELASTICSEARCH_API_KEY"
```

The `.jina-embeddings-v5-omni-small` {{infer}} endpoint is preconfigured and is not deleted.

## Next steps [multimodal-tutorial-next-steps]

You now have a `semantic` field that embeds images at index time and accepts text, image, or PDF input at search time. To adapt this tutorial to an application:

> - Replace the sample images and metadata with your own visual archive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ingest your own multimedia data
```

the original tutorial was a little rushed, can be more general here :)

- Add metadata filters that reflect your application's access controls, categories, or date ranges.
- Adjust `k` and `num_candidates` to balance result quality and query performance for your dataset.

## Related pages [multimodal-tutorial-related]

- [Multimodal search](../multimodal-search.md)
- [`semantic` field type](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/semantic-field.md)

> - [Jina multimodal embeddings](/explore-analyze/machine-learning/nlp/ml-nlp-jina.md#jina-multimodal-embeddings)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Jina multimodal embeddings models](/explore-analyze/machine-learning/nlp/ml-nlp-jina.md#jina-multimodal-embeddings)
```
